The Cop and the Anthem
O N HIS BENCH IN MADISON SQUARE Soapy moved uneasily. When
wild goose honk high of nights, and when women without sealskin
coats grow kind to their husbands, and when Soapy moves
uneasily on his bench in the park, you may know that winter is
near at hand.
A dead leaf fell in Soapy's lap. That was Jack Frost's card. Jack is
kind to the regular denizens of Madison Square, and gives fair
warning of his annual call. At the corners of four streets he hands
his pasteboard to the North Wind, footman of the mansion of All
Outdoors, so that the inhabitants thereof may make ready.
Soapy's mind became cognizant of the fact that the time had
come for him to resolve himself into a singular Committee of Ways
and Means to provide against the coming rigour. And therefore he
moved uneasily on his bench.
The hibernatorial ambitions of Soapy were not of the highest.
In them were no considerations of Mediterranean cruises, of
soporific Southern skies or drifting in the Vesuvian Bay. Three
months on the Island was what his soul craved. Three months of
assured board and bed and congenial company, safe from Boreas
and bluecoats, seemed to Soapy the essence of things desirable.
For years the hospitable Blackwell's had been his winter quarters. Just as his more fortunate fellow New Yorkers had bought
their tickets to Palm Beach and the Riviera each winter, so Soapy
had made his humble arrangements for his annual hegira to the
Island. And now the time was come. On the previous night three
Sabbath newspapers, distributed beneath his coat, about his ankles
and over his lap, had failed to repulse the cold as he slept on his
bench near the spurting fountain in the ancient square. So the
Island loomed large and timely in Soapy's mind. He scorned the
provisions made in the name of charity for the city's dependents. 

In Soapy's opinion the Law was more benign than Philanthropy.
There was an endless round of institutions, municipal and
eleemosynary, on which he might set out and receive lodging and
food accordant with the simple life. But to one of Soapy's proud
spirit the gifts of charity are encumbered. If not in coin you must
pay in humiliation of spirit for every benefit received at the hands
of philanthropy. As Caesar had his Brutus, every bed of charity
must have its toll of a bath, every loaf of bread its compensation of
a private and personal inquisition. Wherefore it is better to be a
guest of the law, which, though conducted by rules, does not
meddle unduly with a gentleman's private affairs.
Soapy, having decided to go to the Island, at once set about
accomplishing his desire. There were many easy ways of doing
this. The pleasantest was to dine luxuriously at some expensive
restaurant; and then, after declaring insolvency, be handed over
quietly and without uproar to a policeman. An accommodating
magistrate would do the rest.
Soapy left his bench and strolled out of the square and across
the level sea of asphalt, where Broadway and Fifth Avenue flow
together, Up Broadway he turned, and halted at a glittering café,
where are gathered together nightly the choicest products of the
grape, the silkworm and the protoplasm.
Soapy had confidence in himself from the lowest button of his vest
upward. He was shaven, and his coat was decent and his neat black,
ready-tied four-in-hand had been presented to him by a lady missionary on Thanksgiving Day. If he could reach a table in the restaurant unsuspected success would be his. The portion of him that
would show above the table would raise no doubt in the waiter's
mind. A roasted mallard duck, thought Soapy, would be about the
thing - with a bottle of Chablis, and then Camembert, a demi-tasse
and a cigar. One dollar for the cigar would be enough. The total
would not be so high as to call forth any supreme manifestation of
revenge from the café management; and yet the meat would leave
him filled and happy for the journey to his winter refuge.
But as Soapy set foot inside the restaurant door the head
waiter's eye fell upon his frayed trousers and decadent shoes.
Strong and ready hands turned him about and conveyed him in
silence and haste to the sidewalk and averted the ignoble fate of
the menaced mallard.
Soapy turned off Broadway. It seemed that his route to the coveted Island was not to be an epicurean one. Some other way of
entering limbo must be thought of. 

At a corner of Sixth Avenue electric lights and cunningly displayed wares behind plate-glass made a shop window conspicuous.
Soapy took a cobblestone and dashed it through the glass. People
came running round the corner, a policeman in the lead. Soapy
stood still, with his hands in his pockets, and smiled at the sight of
brass buttons.
'Where's the man that done that?' inquired the officer excitedly.
'Don't you figure out that I might have had something to do
with it?' said Soapy, not without sarcasm, but friendly, as one
greets good fortune.
The policeman's mind refused to accept Soapy even as a clue.
Men who smash windows do not remain to parley with the law's
minions. They take to their heels. The policeman saw a man halfway down the block running to catch a car. With drawn club he
joined in the pursuit. Soapy, with disgust in his heart, loafed
along, twice unsuccessful.
On the opposite side of the street was a restaurant of no great
pretensions. It catered to large appetites and modest purses. Its
crockery and atmosphere were thick; its soup and napery thin.
Into this place Soapy took his accusive shoes and tell-tale trousers
without challenge. At a table he sat and consumed beefsteak, flapjacks, doughnuts and pie. And then to the waiter he betrayed the
fact that the minutest coin and himself were strangers.
'Now, get busy and call a cop,' said Soapy. 'And don't keep a
gentleman waiting.'
'No cop for youse,' said the waiter, with a voice like butter cakes
and an eye like the cherry in a Manhattan cocktail. 'Hey, Con!'
Neatly upon his left ear on the callous pavement two waiters
pitched Soapy. He arose, joint by joint, as a carpenter's rule opens,
and beat the dust from his clothes. Arrest seemed but a rosy
dream. The Island seemed very far away. A policeman who stood
before a drug store two doors away laughed and walked down the
street.
Five blocks Soapy travelled before his courage permitted him to
woo capture again. This time the opportunity presented what he
fatuously termed to himself a 'cinch.' A young woman of a modest
and pleasing guise was standing before a show window gazing with
sprightly interest at its display of shaving mugs and inkstands, and
two yards from the window a large policeman of severe
demeanour leaned against a water-plug.
It was Soapy's design to assume the role of the despicable and
execrated 'masher.' The refined and elegant appearance of his victim and the contiguity of the conscientious cop encouraged him
to believe that he would soon feel the pleasant official clutch upon
his arm that would ensure his winter quarters on the right little,
tight little isle.
Soapy straightened the lady missionary's ready-made tie,
dragged his shrinking cuffs into the open, set his hat at a killing
cant and sidled toward the young woman. He made eyes at her,
was taken with sudden coughs and 'hems,' smiled, smirked and
went brazenly through the impudent and contemptible litany of
the 'masher.' With half an eye Soapy saw that the policeman was
watching him fixedly. The young woman moved away a few steps,
and again bestowed her absorbed attention upon the shaving
mugs. Soapy followed, boldly stepping to her side, raised his hat
and said:
'Ah there, Bedelia! Don't you want to come and play in my
yard?'
The policeman was still looking. The persecuted young woman
had but to beckon a finger and Soapy would be practically en route
for his insular haven. Already he imagined he could feel the cosy
warmth of the station-house. The young woman faced him and,
stretching out a hand, caught Soapy's coat-sleeve.
'Sure, Mike,' she said joyfully, 'if you'll blow me to a pail of
suds. I'd have spoke to you sooner, but the cop was watching.'
With the young woman playing the clinging ivy to his oak
Soapy walked past the policeman, overcome with gloom. He
seemed doomed to liberty.
At the next corner he shook off his companion and ran. He
halted in the district where by night are found the lightest streets,
hearts, vows and librettos. Women in furs and men in greatcoats
moved gaily in the wintry air. A sudden fear seized Soapy that some
dreadful enchantment had rendered him immune to arrest. The
thought brought a little of panic upon it, and when he came upon
another policeman lounging grandly in front of a transplendent
theatre he caught at the immediate straw of 'disorderly conduct.'
On the sidewalk Soapy began to yell drunken gibberish at the
top of his harsh voice. He danced, howled, raved and otherwise
disturbed the welkin.
The policeman twirled his club, turned his back to Soapy and
remarked to a citizen:
' 'Tis one of them Yale lads celebratin' the goose egg they give
to the Hartford College. Noisy; but no harm. We've instructions Disconsolate, Soapy ceased his unavailing racket. Would never a
policeman lay hands on him? In his fancy the Island seemed an
unattainable Arcadia. He buttoned his thin coat against the chilling
wind.
In a cigar store he saw a well-dressed man lighting a cigar at a
swinging light. His silk umbrella he had set by the door on entering. Soapy stepped inside, secured the umbrella and sauntered off
with it slowly. The man at the cigar light followed hastily.
'My umbrella,' he said sternly.
'Oh, is it?' sneered Soapy, adding insult to petit larceny. 'Well,
why don't you call a policeman? I took it. Your umbrella! Why
don't you call a cop? There stands one at the corner.'
The umbrella owner slowed his steps. Soapy did likewise, with a
presentiment that luck would again run against him. The policeman
looked at the two curiously.
'Of course,' said the umbrella man - 'that is - well, you know
how these mistakes occur - I - if it's your umbrella I hope you'll
excuse me - I picked it up this morning in a restaurant - If you
recognize it as yours, why - I hope you'll - '
'Of course it's mine,' said Soapy viciously.
The ex-umbrella man retreated. The policeman hurried to assist
a tall blonde in an opera cloak across the street in front of a street
car that was approaching two blocks away.
Soapy walked eastward through a street damaged by improvements. He hurled the umbrella wrathfully into an excavation. He
muttered against the men who wear helmets and carry clubs.
Because he wanted to fall into their clutches, they seemed to
regard him as a king who could do no wrong.
At length Soapy reached one of the avenues to the east where
the glitter and turmoil was but faint. He set his face down this
toward Madison Square, for the homing instinct survives even
when the home is a park bench.
But on an unusually quiet corner Soapy came to a standstill.
Here was an old church, quaint and rambling and gabled.
Through one violet-stained window a soft light glowed, where, no
doubt, the organist loitered over the keys, making sure of his mastery of the coming Sabbath anthem. For there drifted out to
Soapy's ears sweet music that caught and held him.
the anthem that the organist played cemented Soapy to the iron
fence, for he had known it well in the days when his life contained
such things as mothers and roses and ambitions and friends and
immaculate thoughts and collars.
The conjunction of Soapy's receptive state of mind and the
influences about the old church wrought a sudden and wonderful
change in his soul. He viewed with swift horror the pit into which
he had tumbled, the degraded days, unworthy desires, dead hopes,
wrecked faculties and base motives that made up his existence.
And also in a moment his heart responded thrillingly to this
novel mood. An instantaneous and strong impulse moved him to
battle with his desperate fate. He would pull himself out of the
mire; he would make a man of himself again; he would conquer
the evil that had taken possession of him. There was time; he was
comparatively young yet; he would resurrect his old eager ambitions and pursue them without faltering. Those solemn but sweet
organ notes had set up a revolution in him. To-morrow he would
go into the roaring down-town district and find work. A fur
importer had once offered him a place as driver. He would find
him to-morrow and ask for the position. He would be somebody
in the world. He would -
Soapy felt a hand laid on his arm. He looked quickly around
into the broad face of a policeman.
'What are you doin' here?' asked the officer.
'Nothin',' said Soapy.
'Then come along,' said the policeman.
'Three months on the Island,' said the Magistrate in the Police
Court the next morning


Chapter 8 
Memoirs of a Yellow Dog

I DON'T SUPPOSE it will knock any of you people off your perch to
read a contribution from an animal. Mr. Kipling and a good many
others have demonstrated the fact that animals can express themselves in remunerative English, and no magazine goes to press
nowadays without an animal story in it, except the old-style
monthlies that are still running pictures of Bryan and the Mont
Pelée horror.
But you needn't look for any stuck-up literature in my piece, such as Bearoo, the bear, and Snakoo, the snake, and Tammanoo,
the tiger, talk in the jungle books. A yellow dog that's spent most
of his life in a cheap New York flat, sleeping in a corner on an old
sateen underskirt (the one she spilled port wine on at the Lady
Longshoremen's banquet), mustn't be expected to perform any
tricks with the art of speech.
I was born a yellow pup; date, locality, pedigree and weight
unknown. The first thing I can recollect, an old woman had me in
a basket at Broadway and Twenty-third trying to sell me to a
fat lady. Old Mother Hubbard was boosting me to beat the band
as a genuine Pomeranian-Hambletonian-Red-Irish-Cochin-ChinaStoke-Pogis fox terrier. The fat lady chased a V around among the
samples of gros grain flannelette in her shopping-bag till she cornered it, and gave up. From that moment I was a pet - a mamma's
own wootsey squidlums. Say, gentle reader, did you ever have
a 200-pound woman breathing a flavour of Camembert cheese
and Peau d'Espagne pick you up and wallop her nose all over
you, remarking all the time in an Emma Eames tone of voice:
'Oh, oo's um oodlum, doodlum, woodlum, toodlum, bitsy-witsy
skoodlums?'
From a pedigreed yellow pup I grew up to be an anonymous
yellow cur looking like a cross between an Angora cat and a box of
lemons. But my mistress never tumbled. She thought that the two
primeval pups that Noah chased into the ark were but a collateral
branch of my ancestors. It took two policemen to keep her from
entering me at the Madison Square Garden for the Siberian
bloodhound prize.
I'll tell you about that flat. The house was the ordinary thing
in New York, paved with Parian marble in the entrance hall and
cobblestones above the first floor. Our flat was three fl - well,
not flights - climbs up. My mistress rented it unfurnished, and
put in the regular things - 1903 antique upholstered parlour set,
oil chromo of geishas in a Harlem tea-house, rubber plant and
husband.
By Sirius! there was a biped I felt sorry for. He was a little man
with sandy hair and whiskers a good deal like mine. Hen-pecked?
- well, toucans and flamingoes and pelicans all had their bills in
him. He wiped the dishes and listened to my mistress tell about
the cheap, ragged things the lady with the squirrel-skin coat on
the second floor hung out on her line to dry. And every evening
while she was getting supper she made him take me out on the end
of a string for a walk. If men knew how women pass the time when they are alone
they'd never marry. Laura Lean Jibbey, peanut brittle, a little
almond cream on the neck muscles, dishes unwashed, half an
hour's talk with the iceman, reading a package of old letters, a
couple of pickles and two bottles of malt extract, one hour peeking
through a hole in the window shade into the flat across the airshaft - that's about all there is to it. Twenty minutes before time
for him to come home from work she straightens up the house,
fixes her rat so it won't show, and gets out a lot of sewing for a
ten-minute bluff.
I led a dog's life in that flat. 'Most all day I lay there in my
corner watching the fat woman kill time. I slept sometimes and
had pipe dreams about being out chasing cats into basements and
growling at old ladies with black mittens, as a dog was intended to
do. Then she would pounce upon me with a lot of that drivelling
poodle palaver and kiss me on the nose - but what could I do? A
dog can't chew cloves.
I began to feel sorry for Hubby, dog my cats if I didn't. We
looked so much alike that people noticed it when we went out; so
we shook the streets that Morgan's cab drives down, and took to
climbing the piles of last December's snow on the streets where
cheap people live.
One evening when we were thus promenading, and I was trying
to look like a prize St. Bernard, and the old man was trying to look
like he wouldn't have murdered the. first organ-grinder he heard
play Mendelssohn's wedding-march, I looked up at him and said,
in my way:
'What are you looking so sour about, you oakum trimmed lobster? She don't kiss you. You don't have to sit on her lap and listen
to talk that would make the book of a musical comedy sound like
the maxims of Epictetus. You ought to be thankful you're not a
dog. Brace up, Benedick, and bid the blues begone.'
The matrimonial mishap looked down at me with almost canine
intelligence in his face.
'Why, doggie,' says he, 'good doggie. You almost look like you
could speak. What is it, doggie - Cats?'
Cats! Could speak!
But, of course, he couldn't understand. Humans were denied
the speech of animals. The only common ground of communication upon which dogs and men can get together is in fiction.
In the flat across the hall from us lived a lady with a black-andtan terrier. Her husband strung it and took it out every evening, 
but he always came home cheerful and whistling. One day I
touched noses with the black-and-tan in the hall, and I struck him
for an elucidation.
'See, here, Wiggle-and-Skip,' I says, 'you know that it ain't the
nature of a real man to play dry-nurse to a dog in public. I never
saw one leashed to a bow-wow yet that didn't look like he'd like to
lick every other man that looked at him. But your boss comes in
every day as perky and set up as an amateur prestidigitator doing
the egg trick. How does he do it? Don't tell me he likes it.'
'Him?' says the black-and-tan. 'Why, he uses Nature's Own
Remedy. He gets spifflicated. At first when we go out he's as shy
as the man on the steamer who would rather play pedro when they
make 'em all jackpots. By the time we've been in eight saloons he
don't care whether the thing on the end of his line is a dog or a
catfish. I've lost two inches of my tail trying to sidestep those
swinging doors.'
The pointer I got from that terrier - vaudeville please copy - set
me to thinking.
One evening about six o'clock my mistress ordered him to get
busy and do the ozone act for Lovey. I have concealed it until
now, but that is what she called me. The black-and-tan was called
'Tweetness.' I consider that I have the bulge on him as far as you
could chase a rabbit. Still 'Lovey' is something of a nomenclatural
tin-can on the tail of one's self-respect.
At a quiet place on a safe street I tightened the line of my custodian in front of an attractive, refined saloon. I made a dead-ahead
scramble for the doors, whining like a dog in the press despatches
that lets the family know that little Alice is bogged while gathering
lilies in the brook.
'Why, darn my eyes,' says the old man, with a grin; 'darn my
eyes if the saffron-coloured son of a seltzer lemonade ain't asking
me in to take a drink. Lemme see - how long's it been since I saved
shoe leather by keeping one foot on the footrest? I believe I'll - '
I knew I had him. Hot Scotches he took, sitting at a table. For
an hour he kept the Campbells coming. I sat by his side rapping
for the waiter with my tail, and eating free lunch such as mamma
in her flat never equalled with her homemade truck bought at a
delicatessen store eight minutes before papa comes home.
When the products of Scotland were all exhausted except the
rye bread the old man unwound me from the table leg and played
me outside like a fisherman plays a salmon. Out there he took off
my collar and threw it into the street. 

'Poor doggie,' says he; 'good doggie. She shan't kiss you any
more. ' S a darned shame. Good doggie, go away and get run over
by a street car and be happy.'
I refused to leave. I leaped and frisked around the old man's legs
happy as a pug on a rug.
'You old flea-headed woodchuck-chaser,' I said to him - 'you
moon-baying, rabbit-pointing, egg-stealing old beagle, can't you
see that I don't want to leave you? Can't you see that we're both
Pups in the Wood and the missis is the cruel uncle after you with
the dish towel and me with the flea liniment and a pink bow to tie
on my tail. Why not cut that all out and be pards for evermore?'
Maybe you'll say he didn't understand - maybe he didn't. But
he kind of got a grip on the Hot Scotches, and stood still for a
minute, thinking.
'Doggie,' says he finally, 'we don't live more than a dozen lives
on this earth, and very few of us live to be more than 300. If I ever
see that flat any more I'm a flat, and if you do you're flatter; and
that's no flattery. I'm offering 60 to 1 that Westward Ho wins out
by the length of a dachshund.'
There was no string, but I frolicked along with my master to the
Twenty-third Street ferry. And the cats on the route saw reason to
give thanks that prehensile claws had been given them.
On the Jersey side my master said to a stranger who stood
eating a currant bun:
'Me and my doggie, we are bound for the Rocky Mountains.'
But what pleased me most was when my old man pulled both of
my ears until I howled, and said:
'You common, monkey-headed, rat-tailed, sulphur-coloured
son of a door-mat, do you know what I'm going to call you?'
I thought of 'Lovey,' and I whined dolefully.
'I'm going to call you "Pete," ' says my master; and if I'd had
five tails I couldn't have done enough wagging to do justice to the
occasion.

Chapter 9 
The Love-philtre of Ikey Schoenstein

THE BLUE LIGHT DRUG STORE is down-town, between the Bowery
and First Avenue, where the distance between the two streets is the
shortest. The Blue Light does not consider that pharmacy is a thing of bric-a-brac, scent and ice-cream soda. If you ask it for a pain-killer
it will not give you a bonbon.
The Blue Light scorns the labour-saving arts of modern pharmacy. It macerates its opium and percolates its own laudanum and
paregoric. To this day pills are made behind its tall prescription
desk - pills rolled out on its own pill-tile, divided with a spatula,
rolled with the finger and thumb, dusted with calcined magnesia
and delivered in little round, pasteboard pill-boxes. The store is on
a corner about which coveys of ragged-plumed, hilarious children
play and become candidates for the cough-drops and soothing
syrups that wait for them inside.
Ikey Schoenstein was the night clerk of the Blue Light and the
friend of his customers. Thus it is on the East Side, where the
heart of pharmacy is not glacé. There, as it should be, the druggist
is a counsellor, a confessor, an adviser, an able and willing missionary and mentor whose learning is respected, whose occult
wisdom is venerated and whose medicine is often poured,
untasted, into the gutter. Therefore Ikey's corniform, bespectacled nose and narrow, knowledge-bowed figure was well known in
the vicinity of the Blue Light, and his advice and notice were
much desired.
Ikey roomed and breakfasted at Mrs. Riddle's, two squares
away. Mrs. Riddle had a daughter named Rosy. The circumlocution has been in vain - you must have guessed it - Ikey adored
Rosy. She tinctured all his thoughts; she was the compound
extract of all that was chemically pure and officinal - the dispensatory contained nothing equal to her. But Ikey was timid, and his
hopes remained insoluble in the menstruum of his backwardness
and fears. Behind his counter he was a superior being, calmly
conscious of special knowledge and worth; outside, he was a
weak-kneed, purblind, motorman-cursed rambler, with ill-fitting
clothes stained with chemicals and smelling of socotrine aloes and
valerianate of ammonia.
The fly in Ikey's ointment (thrice welcome, pat trope!) was
Chunk McGowan.
Mr. McGowan was also striving to catch the bright smiles
tossed about by Rosy. But he was no out-fielder as Ikey was; he
picked them off the bat. At the same time he was Ikey's friend and
customer, and often dropped in at the Blue Light Drug Store to
have a bruise painted with iodine or get a cut rubber-plastered
after a pleasant evening spent along the Bowery.
One afternoon McGowan drifted in in his silent, easy way, and sat, comely, smoothed-faced, hard, indomitable, good-natured,
upon a stool.
'Ikey,' said he, when his friend had fetched his mortar and sat
opposite, grinding gum benzoin to a powder, 'get busy with your
ear. It's drugs for me if you've got the line I need.'
Ikey scanned the countenance of Mr. McGowan for the usual
evidences of conflict, but found none.
'Take your coat off,' he ordered. 'I guess already that you have
been stuck in the ribs with a knife. I have many times told you
those Dagoes would do you up.'
Mr. McGowan smiled. 'Not them,' he said. 'Not any Dagoes.
But you've located the diagnosis all right enough - it's under my
coat, near the ribs. Say! Ikey - Rosy and me are goin' to run away
and get married to-night.'
Ikey's left forefinger was doubled over the edge of the mortar,
holding it steady. He gave it a wild rap with the pestle, but felt
it not. Meanwhile Mr. McGowan's smile faded to a look of
perplexed gloom.
'That is,' he continued, 'if she keeps in the notion until the time
comes. We've been layin' pipes for the gateway for two weeks.
One day she says she will; the same evenin' she says nixy. We've
agreed on to-night, and Rosy's stuck to the affirmative this time
for two whole days. But it's five hours yet till the time, and I'm
afraid she'll stand me up when it comes to the scratch.'
'You said you wanted drugs,' remarked Ikey.
Mr. McGowan looked ill at ease and harassed - a condition
opposed to his usual line of demeanour. He made a patent-medicine almanac into a roll and fitted it with unprofitable carefulness
about his finger.
'I wouldn't have this double handicap make a false start to-night
for a million,' he said. 'I've got a little flat up in Harlem all ready,
with chrysanthemums on the table and a kettle ready to boil. And
I've engaged a pulpit pounder to be ready at his house for us at
9.30. It's got to come off. And if Rosy don't change her mind
again!' - Mr. McGowan ceased, a prey to his doubts.
'I don't see then yet,' said Ikey shortly, 'what makes it that you
talk of drugs, or what I can be doing about it.'
'Old man Riddle don't like me a little bit,' went on the uneasy
suitor, bent upon marshalling his arguments. 'For a week he hasn't
let Rosy step outside the door with me. If it wasn't for losin' a
boarder they'd have bounced me long ago. I'm makin' $20 a week
and she'll never regret flyin' the coop with Chunk McGowan.' 

'You will excuse me, Chunk,' said Ikey. 'I must make a prescription
that is to be called for soon.'
'Say,' said McGowan, looking up suddenly, 'say, Ikey, ain't
there a drug of some kind - some kind of powders that'll make a
girl like you better if you give 'em to her?'
Ikey's lip beneath his nose curled with the scorn of superior
enlightenment; but before he could answer, McGowan continued:
'Tim Lacy told me once that he got some from a croaker uptown and fed 'em to his girl in soda water. From the very first dose
he was ace-high and everybody else looked like thirty cents to her.
They was married in less than two weeks.'
Strong and simple was Chunk McGowan. A better reader of
men than Ikey was could have seen that his tough frame was
strung upon fine wires. Like a good general who was about to
invade the enemy's territory he was seeking to guard every point
against possible failure.
'I thought,' went on Chunk hopefully, 'that if I had one of them
powders to give Rosy when I see her at supper to-night it might
brace her up and keep her from reneging on the proposition to
skip. I guess she don't need a mule team to drag her away, but
women are better at coaching than they are at running bases. If
the stuff'll work just for a couple of hours it'll do the trick.'
'When is this foolishness of running away to be happening?'
asked Ikey.
'Nine o'clock,' said Mr. McGowan. 'Supper's at seven. At eight
Rosy goes to bed with a headache. At nine old Parvenzano lets me
through to his backyard, where there's a board off Riddle's fence,
next door. I go under her window and help her down the fireescape. We've got to make it early on the preacher's account. It's
all dead easy if Rosy don't balk when the flag drops. Can you fix
me one of them powders, Ikey?'
Ikey Schoenstein rubbed his nose slowly.
'Chunk,' said he, 'it is of drugs of that nature that pharmaceutists must have much carefulness. To you alone of my acquaintance would I entrust a powder like that. But for you I shall make
it, and you shall see how it makes Rosy to think of you.'
Ikey went behind the prescription desk. There he crushed to a
powder two soluble tablets, each containing a quarter of a grain of
morphia. To them he added a little sugar of milk to increase the
bulk, and folded the mixture neatly in a white paper. Taken by an
adult this powder would ensure several hours of heavy slumber
without danger to the sleeper. This he handed to Chunk McGowan, telling him to administer it in a liquid, if possible, and
received the hearty thanks of the backyard Lochinvar.
The subtlety of Ikey's action becomes apparent upon recital of
his subsequent move. He sent a messenger for Mr. Riddle and disclosed the plans of McGowan for eloping with Rosy. Mr. Riddle
was a stout man, brick-dusty of complexion and sudden in action.
'Much obliged,' he said briefly to Ikey. 'The lazy Irish loafer!
My own room's just above Rosy's, I'll just go up there myself after
supper and load the shot-gun and wait. If he comes in my backyard he'll go away in an ambulance instead of a bridal chaise.'
With Rosy held in the clutches of Morpheus for a manyhours' deep slumber, and the bloodthirsty parent waiting, armed
and forewarned, Ikey felt that his rival was close, indeed, upon
discomfiture.
All night in the Blue Light Store he waited at his duties for
chance news of the tragedy, but none came.
At eight o'clock in the morning the day clerk arrived and Ikey
started hurriedly for Mrs. Riddle's to learn the outcome. And, lo!
as he stepped out of the store who but Chunk McGowan sprang
from a passing street-car and grasped his hand - Chunk McGowan
with a victor's smile and flushed with joy.
'Pulled it off,' said Chunk with Elysium in his grin. 'Rosy hit the
fire-escape on time to a second and we was under the wire at the
Reverend's at 9.3 0
 1/4
. She's up at the flat - she cooked eggs this
mornin' in a blue kimono - Lord! how lucky I am! You must pace
up some day, Ikey, and feed with us. I've got a job down near the
bridge, and that's where I'm heading for now.'
'The - the powder?' stammered Ikey.
'Oh, that stuff you gave me!' said Chunk broadening his grin;
'well, it was this way. I sat down at the supper table last night at
Riddle's, and I looked at Rosy, and I says to myself, "Chunk, if you
get the girl get her on the square - don't try any hocus-pocus with
a thoroughbred like her." And I keeps the paper you give me in
my pocket. And then my lamps falls on another party present,
who, I says to myself, is failin' in a proper affection toward his
comin' son-in-law, so I watches my chance and dumps that
powder in old man Riddle's coffee - see?' 

